# casechek
Casechek Technical Integration Challenge

This Javascript code takes in .txt files intended to be HL7 messages in the same directory and extracts the required HL7 fields and formats the information into a json object that will be returned at the end of execution. I structured my solution to the problem as a single function using javascript that returns the required information as a JSON object. I split the message by new line delimiters to get the individual segments then looped through those segments to get what was needed from each one parsing the segments further by pipes and carets. I wanted my code to be clean and easy to understand so I moved step by step through the required fields in the HL7 message. I also made sure that each line or couple of lines relating to each other had a comment to explain their purpose within the program to extract the information while trying to avoid convoluted chunks of code that do many things at once. 

To parse the implant information, I saved the contents of NTE-3 into a string and split it by the dashes that separated each value I needed. As the code parsed the implant data, I made sure to check a few things that I considered parsing errors. I made sure there are 3 values in the array, if there are less, then I set the parseError variable to true. Next, I used for loops to find the implant’s description, quantity, and lot number. I looped through the values of the array holding the implant information in case the information was not in a certain order to avoid mixing the values up in the final object. I did not want to assume that the description came first, followed by the quantity then lot number. I also checked if the quantity value was an integer and not a number spelled out or any other random word. If it was anything other than an integer, I set parseError to true. Finally, if any value in the array is empty, I also set parseError to true. These rules ensure that any missing or incorrectly formatted information is flagged as an error so it can be caught and reviewed. Additionally if there is missing or incorrect information that is needed in the NTE segments, I added what was present in the HL7 message to the object to show what is incorrect or missing if the parseError was true.

After the HL7 messages are sent from the hospitals, Qvera will ingest it. Then, Qvera will execute the JavaScript function to extract the data and create a json object to output for Casechek to use. Casechek would not receive the HL7 message in this scenario unless it was needed for something else and the function was rewritten to send the message along as well. I have not worked with Qvera but most integration engines all work the same. They receive the messages, they parse and transform them as told to by the rules set by the organization using it, then they send the resulting message or extracted data to the downstream system. I would learn the specific functionality of Qvera by diving in for hands-on experience. My main question about Qvera would be about testing. How is testing done while creating new processes like this one? Using Corepoint Interface Engine, I would create the process and it would allow me to test on imported sample messages without committing the new code to production. Qvera should have a feature similar to Corepoint’s but if not, there are other ways to execute helpful testing. To test that my code works properly before pushing it to production, I would run many tests on different messages accounting for different edge cases. I would use real messages and fake messages to try to cover all my bases in terms of odd scenarios. Assuming Qvera has a test pane that I can use, I would do this in the engine. Otherwise I could create a process in Qvera that runs concurrently with the system but doesn’t alter any of the current processes. For example, I could have it take real messages it receives and run the function and send the results to a file in a folder and not to any systems that would disrupt production.

Before putting this function into production I would want to check for many other HL7 message scenarios. I would make sure to account for HL7 types that are not SIU and filter those out. Similarly I would reject empty messages or non-HL7 messages. If there are duplicate segment types that cannot be easily distinguished, I would throw an error to raise a flag to notify that the message needs to be manually checked. While checking on this message, to fix it, I would try to find ways to edit the code if there is a way to work out the duplicates via key words or other means, or I would reach out to the source of the message asking for a corrected message. Regarding out of order messages, in my code I looped through the segments so that order is not as important. Looping through the segments means I can take the segments in any order and still extract what is needed without worrying about if they are out of order in relation to each other.


